README.md, before:

# VSCode MCP

<p align="center">
  <img src="packages/vscode-mcp-bridge/assets/logo.png" alt="VSCode MCP" width="200"/>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Connect VSCode with MCP (Model Context Protocol) for enhanced AI assistant capabilities</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#design-motivation">Design Motivation</a> •
  <a href="#available-tools">Available Tools</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

[![MCP Badge](https://lobehub.com/badge/mcp/tjx666-vscode-mcp)](https://lobehub.com/mcp/tjx666-vscode-mcp) ![CI](https://github.com/tjx666/vscode-mcp/actions/workflows/vscode-extension-ci.yml/badge.svg) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://makeapullrequest.com) [![Github Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/tjx666/vscode-mcp)](https://github.com/tjx666/vscode-mcp/issues) [![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Anti%20996-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/996icu/996.ICU/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Overview

VSCode MCP is a comprehensive monorepo solution that enables MCP (Model Context Protocol) clients to access rich VSCode context information in real-time. This project bridges the gap between AI assistants and your development environment, providing accurate code analysis, diagnostics, and intelligent code navigation.

## Design Motivation

**VSCode MCP Bridge primarily serves AI IDEs (like Cursor) and AI coding agents**, helping them develop and analyze code more efficiently.

Traditional AI coding agents often need to execute time-consuming commands when validating code modifications:

- `tsc --noEmit` - TypeScript type checking
- `eslint .` - Code style checking
- `npm run build` - Project building

These commands run slowly in large projects, severely impacting AI development efficiency. VSCode MCP Bridge provides real-time LSP (Language Server Protocol) information, allowing AI agents to:

- **Get fast diagnostics** (`get-diagnostics`) - Replace time-consuming type checking and lint commands
- **Access comprehensive LSP information** (`get-symbol-lsp-info`) - Get definition, hover, signatures, and type info in one call
- **Navigate code efficiently** (`get-references`) - Understand code structure and dependencies with usage context
- **Safe file operations** - Rename symbols across files with automatic import updates

### Core Advantages

1. **Real-time**: Leverage VSCode's LSP for real-time code state without executing slow commands
2. **Accuracy**: Precise analysis based on language servers, more reliable than static analysis
3. **Efficiency**: Significantly reduce AI coding agent wait times
4. **Integration**: Deep integration with VSCode ecosystem, supporting multiple languages and extensions

## Available Tools

VSCode MCP provides the following tools through the MCP protocol:

| Tool                    | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **execute_command**     | ⚠️ Execute VSCode commands with JSON string arguments            |
| **get_symbol_lsp_info** | Get comprehensive LSP info (definition, hover, signatures, etc.) |
| **get_diagnostics**     | Get real-time diagnostics, replace slow tsc/eslint               |
| **get_references**      | Find symbol references with usage context code                   |
| **health_check**        | Test connection to VSCode MCP Bridge extension                   |
| **list_workspaces**     | List all available VSCode workspaces                             |
| **open_files**          | Open multiple files with optional editor display                 |
| **rename_symbol**       | Rename symbols across all files in workspace                     |

> **⚠️ Security Warning**: The `execute_command` tool can execute arbitrary VSCode commands and potentially trigger dangerous operations. Use with extreme caution and only with trusted AI models.

## Installation

> **🚨 IMPORTANT**: Before installing the MCP server, you must first install the VSCode MCP Bridge extension in your VSCode instance. The extension is required for the MCP server to communicate with VSCode.

### Step 1: Install VSCode Extension

Install the VSCode MCP Bridge extension using ID: `YuTengjing.vscode-mcp-bridge`

[![Install VSCode Extension](https://img.shields.io/badge/VSCode%20Marketplace-Install%20Extension-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=YuTengjing.vscode-mcp-bridge)

Or search for "VSCode MCP Bridge" in the VSCode Extensions marketplace.

### Step 2: Install MCP Server

#### Codex

Add the following configuration to your `~/.codex/config.toml`:

```toml
[mcp_servers.vscode-mcp]
command = "bunx"
args = ["-y", "@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"]
env = { "VSCODE_MCP_DISABLED_TOOLS" = "health_check,list_workspaces,open_files" }
startup_timeout_ms = 16_000
```

#### Claude Code

Claude Code (claude.ai/code) provides built-in MCP support. Simply run:

```bash
claude mcp add vscode-mcp -- npx -y @vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest
```

This command will automatically configure the MCP server in your Claude Code environment.

#### Cursor

##### Click the button to install

[![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](https://cursor.com/install-mcp?name=vscode-mcp&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IEB2c2NvZGUtbWNwL3ZzY29kZS1tY3Atc2VydmVyQGxhdGVzdCJ9)

##### Or install manually

Go to `Cursor Settings` -> `Tools & Integrations` -> `New MCP Server`. Name to your liking, use `command` type with the command `npx @vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest`. You can also verify config or add command line arguments via clicking `Edit`.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "vscode-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Gemini CLI

Add the following configuration to your `~/.gemini/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "vscode-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {},
      "includeTools": [
        "get_symbol_lsp_info",
        "get_diagnostics",
        "get_references",
        "health_check",
        "rename_symbol"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Architecture

Once installed and configured, VSCode MCP works seamlessly with MCP-compatible clients:

1. **VSCode Extension**: Runs in your VSCode instance and provides access to LSP data
2. **MCP Server**: Translates MCP protocol calls to VSCode extension requests

All tools require the `workspace_path` parameter to target specific VSCode instances. Each VSCode workspace gets its own socket connection for multi-window support.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Anti 996](https://github.com/996icu/996.ICU/blob/master/LICENSE) License.

Commit message:

feat: add tool filtering functionality to MCP server
- Introduced command-line arguments and environment variables for enabling and disabling tools.
- Updated README with new configuration options and examples for tool filtering.
- Enhanced CLI argument handling to support enabled tools alongside disabled tools.

README.md, after:

# VSCode MCP

<p align="center">
  <img src="packages/vscode-mcp-bridge/assets/logo.png" alt="VSCode MCP" width="200"/>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Connect VSCode with MCP (Model Context Protocol) for enhanced AI assistant capabilities</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#design-motivation">Design Motivation</a> •
  <a href="#available-tools">Available Tools</a> •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

[![MCP Badge](https://lobehub.com/badge/mcp/tjx666-vscode-mcp)](https://lobehub.com/mcp/tjx666-vscode-mcp) ![CI](https://github.com/tjx666/vscode-mcp/actions/workflows/vscode-extension-ci.yml/badge.svg) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://makeapullrequest.com) [![Github Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/tjx666/vscode-mcp)](https://github.com/tjx666/vscode-mcp/issues) [![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Anti%20996-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/996icu/996.ICU/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Overview

VSCode MCP is a comprehensive monorepo solution that enables MCP (Model Context Protocol) clients to access rich VSCode context information in real-time. This project bridges the gap between AI assistants and your development environment, providing accurate code analysis, diagnostics, and intelligent code navigation.

## Design Motivation

**VSCode MCP Bridge primarily serves AI IDEs (like Cursor) and AI coding agents**, helping them develop and analyze code more efficiently.

Traditional AI coding agents often need to execute time-consuming commands when validating code modifications:

- `tsc --noEmit` - TypeScript type checking
- `eslint .` - Code style checking
- `npm run build` - Project building

These commands run slowly in large projects, severely impacting AI development efficiency. VSCode MCP Bridge provides real-time LSP (Language Server Protocol) information, allowing AI agents to:

- **Get fast diagnostics** (`get-diagnostics`) - Replace time-consuming type checking and lint commands
- **Access comprehensive LSP information** (`get-symbol-lsp-info`) - Get definition, hover, signatures, and type info in one call
- **Navigate code efficiently** (`get-references`) - Understand code structure and dependencies with usage context
- **Safe file operations** - Rename symbols across files with automatic import updates

### Core Advantages

1. **Real-time**: Leverage VSCode's LSP for real-time code state without executing slow commands
2. **Accuracy**: Precise analysis based on language servers, more reliable than static analysis
3. **Efficiency**: Significantly reduce AI coding agent wait times
4. **Integration**: Deep integration with VSCode ecosystem, supporting multiple languages and extensions

## Available Tools

VSCode MCP provides the following tools through the MCP protocol:

| Tool                    | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **execute_command**     | ⚠️ Execute VSCode commands with JSON string arguments            |
| **get_symbol_lsp_info** | Get comprehensive LSP info (definition, hover, signatures, etc.) |
| **get_diagnostics**     | Get real-time diagnostics, replace slow tsc/eslint               |
| **get_references**      | Find symbol references with usage context code                   |
| **health_check**        | Test connection to VSCode MCP Bridge extension                   |
| **list_workspaces**     | List all available VSCode workspaces                             |
| **open_files**          | Open multiple files with optional editor display                 |
| **rename_symbol**       | Rename symbols across all files in workspace                     |

> **⚠️ Security Warning**: The `execute_command` tool can execute arbitrary VSCode commands and potentially trigger dangerous operations. Use with extreme caution and only with trusted AI models.

## Installation

> **🚨 IMPORTANT**: Before installing the MCP server, you must first install the VSCode MCP Bridge extension in your VSCode instance. The extension is required for the MCP server to communicate with VSCode.

### Step 1: Install VSCode Extension

Install the VSCode MCP Bridge extension using ID: `YuTengjing.vscode-mcp-bridge`

[![Install VSCode Extension](https://img.shields.io/badge/VSCode%20Marketplace-Install%20Extension-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=YuTengjing.vscode-mcp-bridge)

Or search for "VSCode MCP Bridge" in the VSCode Extensions marketplace.

### Step 2: Install MCP Server

#### Codex

Add the following configuration to your `~/.codex/config.toml`:

```toml
[mcp_servers.vscode-mcp]
command = "bunx"
args = ["-y", "@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"]
env = { "VSCODE_MCP_DISABLED_TOOLS" = "health_check,list_workspaces,open_files" }
startup_timeout_ms = 16_000
```

#### Claude Code

Claude Code (claude.ai/code) provides built-in MCP support. Simply run:

```bash
claude mcp add vscode-mcp -- npx -y @vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest
```

This command will automatically configure the MCP server in your Claude Code environment.

#### Cursor

##### Click the button to install

[![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](https://cursor.com/install-mcp?name=vscode-mcp&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IEB2c2NvZGUtbWNwL3ZzY29kZS1tY3Atc2VydmVyQGxhdGVzdCJ9)

##### Or install manually

Go to `Cursor Settings` -> `Tools & Integrations` -> `New MCP Server`. Name to your liking, use `command` type with the command `npx @vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest`. You can also verify config or add command line arguments via clicking `Edit`.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "vscode-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Gemini CLI

Add the following configuration to your `~/.gemini/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "vscode-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@vscode-mcp/vscode-mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {},
      "includeTools": [
        "get_symbol_lsp_info",
        "get_diagnostics",
        "get_references",
        "health_check",
        "rename_symbol"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Tool Filtering

You can control which tools are available using command-line arguments or environment variables:

**Command-line arguments:**

- `--enable-tools` - Comma-separated list of tools to enable (whitelist mode). If specified, only these tools will be available.
- `--disable-tools` - Comma-separated list of tools to disable (blacklist mode). Applied after `--enable-tools`.

**Environment variables:**

- `VSCODE_MCP_ENABLED_TOOLS` - Same as `--enable-tools`
- `VSCODE_MCP_DISABLED_TOOLS` - Same as `--disable-tools`

## Architecture

Once installed and configured, VSCode MCP works seamlessly with MCP-compatible clients:

1. **VSCode Extension**: Runs in your VSCode instance and provides access to LSP data
2. **MCP Server**: Translates MCP protocol calls to VSCode extension requests

All tools require the `workspace_path` parameter to target specific VSCode instances. Each VSCode workspace gets its own socket connection for multi-window support.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Anti 996](https://github.com/996icu/996.ICU/blob/master/LICENSE) License.
